Now we need to work on the sidebar
component which is basically
just gonna be literally the sidebar
on the left of the dashboard.
So, we can work on that and
this one's pretty simple,
it doesn't really do anything crazy,
although it is going to probably
introduce our first client component.
And that's because in the sidebar,
we wanna be able to highlight
the icon of the route that we're
currently on, the active route.
And we only have access to what route we
are on on the client, so that component
that's been highlighted, the icon
opponent, wherever we call it, needs to be
a client component, because we can't do it
on the server, we don't have access to it.
The hook that we use to access
the current route, you can't use the hook
on the server, so, and there's no
window doubt location on the server, so
there's really, not a good way to get it.
I mean,
I guess you could hack it on the server,
you could look at the request object maybe
and try to figure it out from there, or
the headers or something like that.
But that sounds like a lot of work,
so probably won't do that.
One thing I noticed though,
before we move on, as I was going through,
I don't actually think our
telephone is hooked up properly.
I think something's weird going on here.
I might not have post CSS included.
I thought I did, let's see.
That might be it.
It literally won't work without
post CSS so that probably is it, so
I'm gonna add that.
Come here.
Give me just that part.
Okay, they really didn't
want me to copy that.
So, going to NPM install, postcss,
which is the thing that's
powering Tailwind.
It literally won't work without that,
I thought that was already installed.
And auto prefixer just puts
the WebKit browser prefixers and
all the other prefixers on it for us.
And just means dev dependency.
Cool.
I'm going to run the recommended
command that they have for MPX,
tailwind CSS init dash P.
And so
I'm gonna do let's see what that yields.
I think because we needed a postcss
config, I think that even if it's empty,
I still think you need that config.
Because there's literally nothing in it.
But I think it has to be there.
So run that again.
Yeah, that was it.
You literally have to
have an empty config.
Like who, like what about using the config
file at the config but there it is, cool.
That looks about what I
imagined it to look like.
So I was able to just
get that working by just
running MPX tailwind css one word and
knit dash p.
To initialize that config it detected
that we already had a tailwind config so
it didn't touch that Instead
created a postcss config for
us which we needed even though it's empty.
And we have no configuration.
And that's what will break your app.
Okay, so it looks a lot better.
So what we wanna do now is
working on that sidebar which
we'll go into if we go to home here.
Or I don't have anything at home do I?
Let's see.
I have something at home here I just
stopped the server I think
come on MPM run dev.
So if we go to home here, it's going
to be the thing on the side here,
the little sidebar that we had.
That's the sidebar.
It's literally in the name.
It's a sidebar.
So we'll do that.
Let's do it.
So components.
Sidebar tsx.
I forgot our notes.
Actually what we're gonna do,
we're gonna do the other one,
the one that's a client component first.
So this one's actually going to
be called the side bar link tsx.
Let's do that will first,
be a lot easier to follow.
This is the actual link that's
gonna be in the sidebar.
It's like an icon component.
So we'll do that and
it's actually just probably on
the next page of the docs here.
Yeah, there we go.
So this one is gonna be a client component
so I'm gonna put use client at the top.
And I'm gonna import the link
component from Next.js like that
And a couple icons from react feather,
so we have settings,
user, grid, and
calendar from react feather.
It's an icon library.
It looks like this.
It's actually nothing to do with React,
but it's just like the React version
of it that points to feather icons,
which are really cool-looking icons.
I've always used react icons
which is really cool lib but
I was like I want to switch it up so
I'll use react feather.
I think I like it better than react icons.
But anyway, got that and
then we want to, it's for this import.
This one import right here is the only
reason why we have to do use client
Use path name.
That only works in the client.
And the reason I know that, other than
the documentation telling me that is,
it's a hook.
Hooks only work on client components,
and it's based off of browser api,
which only exists in the client component.
But i if you're in doubt, you can
go to the documentation if you type
in use path name, you can see right here.
Use pathway and
hooks allows you to read the current
url path name from a client component.
They put an underline on it just to
emphasize to you this is a client
component only hood.
Okay, so
that's all we have use client here.
And then clsx, cool.
So next thing I want to do is just, pretty
much the strategy is to this sidebar link.
If given a link object,
it's just going to render out a next
link that wraps an icon that
has some classes on it.
That's it and
it maps an icon name to an icon.
And this is actually interesting.
Well, I have to do this and
I'll explain it in a minute.
It has something to do
with the network boundary.
And what can be serialized and
what can't be serialized.
And why you can only pass certain things
as client components versus passing them
as server components.
Cuz in reactors this would actually work,
but we can't do it here.
So I'm just gonna leave
my map of icons here, and
I'm just gonna give them their names.
Literally, the same names that
you import as, so settings,
user, grid, calendar and
you'll see why I'm doing that in a minute.
And then we'll just make the components so
sidebar link
On a wise don't I didn't want to,
al lright, got a CyberLink here.
It's going to take a link
object from someplace.
And then we wanna get the path name here.
So we can say const path = pathname
= usePathName like that.
And then we can say if path.
Name triple equals link dot what
might have called it, link.
Yeah, link.
Then this is an active link.
So we can just make a let here
is active so it's a false.
If that's true then
because it is active true.
You might be thinking, should I
put that in the state somewhere so
it keep track of it?
No, it's totally fine.
I don't need to keep track of it
because it's not gonna change based off
an interaction where I
need to force a reminder.
It's only ever gonna change
when the path changes.
And when the path changes
this thing reloads anyway,
it's a client component so I don't
need to put this in a state I can just
compute it every time I
re renders it's free.
When I say free I mean react doesn't
have to compare this, we get it for
free because the url changes Okay.
Then we wanna get the icon capitalizing
it because it's gonna be a component.
If you don't use capital letters and react
for components, it'll freak out at you.
So you have these capital letters
icons is going to be from icons.
Wherever the link dot i,
okay, Link dot icon is.
So the reason we have to do this,
this being a client component,
it's going to be rendered in a server
component or if we just forget about
server components or cli commands right
now, these are just two components.
You can pass another
component down as a prop.
Like it's totally fine.
You could pass a function as a prop.
You can pass pretty much wherever you
want as a prop to another component,
unless it's a server component
passing down to a client component.
Because there's a network barrier there.
There is what's happening is
the serialization process is
happening because it has
to cross the network and
you cannot serialize a function,
which is what a component is.
A component's just a function.
You also can't serialize like date
objects and things like that, or
anything recursive.
You just can't serialize it.
So because of that we actually can't
pass the icon component itself instead
we've got to pass a string that
tells us what icon to use and
then we can map to it when we're in
the component side and that's why we're
doing it this way so it does change
how he write code just a little bit.
Because if both of,
if everything was client,
we wouldn't have to do this mapping here.
The link object itself would already
know what component to render or
what icon to render.
Does that make sense?
It's a little complicated.
It's hard to think about, but because
they're gonna be next to each other.
We're gonna be using a client
component and a server component, but
they're happening at two different times.
And across, one's happening on the server,
the other one's happening after
the network request was made.
So we can't just pass things down
like that Okay, let's do this.
So let's return our link
component like that.
It's going to have
an href of Link dot link.
And we're just going to put
an icon I got a class size of 40.
So to say, wherever the icon was.
I think it's a self closing, actually.
Here we go.
Size of 40 and we got a class name here,
gonna use clsx, like so and
we'll just grab these really cool
Tailwind styles, like that.
And then className are actually
yeah we got to the is active stuff.
So if is active and
we just wanna go ahead and
just add a stroke to it because
these icons are SVG so
let's add a stroke.
Cool.
Any questions on that?
On why this is a client component,
how it's a client component,
the network boundary, serialization.
Anybody ever try to JSON
stringify something recursive?
Yeah
>> Could you go over the icon thing one
more time, please?
>> Yes, I could totally go over
the icon thing one more time.
So In a perfect scenario,
this link object that's
getting passed as a prop would
already have the icon associated with it.
It'll be something like this, you probably
would have it like that like Link dot icon
like it already would know
We can't do that with this
because this client component is gonna
be rendered in a server component and
that server component can't pass non
serializable props to a client component.
And a component like
link.icon is a function and
functions aren't serializable.
It cannot cross the network.
You can't send a function
across the network.
You can only send JSON or HTML or
CSS, cuz you can't send a function.
So therefore we cannot send If
a component as a property from
a server component to a client upon it,
it just won't work.
Because it won't cross the network
barrier just like the date
object can't be sterilized.
Just like a recursive
object can't be sterilized,
a function too can't be sterilized.
You kind of have to think about it as in
like you have to you have to abstract
away how react made it so
easy for you to, like,
have these components live next to
each other and think about, like,
if you have a server component and
you have a client component.
In between those components
is just big red line.
That red line is the network barrier,
it's the boundaries,
it's where the network call happens.
If you wanna cross that, you got to be
serializable and a component isn't.
So it can't cross it
though it's not allowed.
So that's the way I think about
it in my head when I think about
seeds it's a big red line there and
you can't get past it.
So yeah so in that case we instead
are sending back a stream that
map's to an object of icons that
are already in the client component so
we can scrap it that way because
strings are serializable.